President of the National League for Democracy

Born				12 March 1927 (age 91)
					Bassein, Burma (now Pathein)

Political party		National League for Democracy

Spouse(s)			Tin Moe Wai

Children			1


General Thura Tin Oo is a retired general, former commander in chief of the armed forces of Union of Myanmar, highly decorated soldier, pro-democracy activist and now currently serving as Chairman of the National League for Democracy (NLD) in Myanmar.


Political career

He was released under general amnesty in 1980, after which he studied and received a degree in Law. On 2 September 1988, he became the Vice President of the National League for Democracy (NLD) and on 20 December, the President of NLD. From 20 July 1989 he was put under house arrest and from 22 December 1989, he was imprisoned for three years.

On 30 May 2003, Tin Oo, travelling with the caravan of Aung San Suu Kyi, leader of the NLD, was attacked in the northern village of Depayin by a government-sponsored mob, murdering and wounding many of his supporters. Tin Oo was taken into detention along with Aung San Suu Kyi and was initially held in prison in Kalay in northwestern Myanmar. In February 2004 he was brought back to his home in Yangon, where he is actually held under house arrest. The junta extended his detention by one year in February 2007, 2008, and 2009. The last of these extensions was in violation of the rule of Burmese law, but no explanation was given by the junta. He was released from House Arrest on February 13, 2010.


Forced retirement, accusations and Imprisonment

On 6 March 1976, As per Order no. 26/76 issued by the Council of State, Tin Oo was forced to retired from his position as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of Burma. According to the official explanation released by the then ruling party, Burma Socialist Programme Party, General Tin Oo was forced to retire because Dr. Daw Tin Moe Wai, his wife, broke the rules and regulations laid down for the spouses of commanding officers of the Tatmadaw by accepting numerous bribes, thus affecting General Tin Oo's position as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces.

After his forced retirement, he was accused of high treasons against the armed forces (Tatmadaw), the party (BSPP) and the state. He was subsequently arrested and tried for the alleged withholding of information concerning a failed coup-d'état against General Ne Win and the Council of State. On 11 January 1977, Judge U Ohn Maung, Chairman of Divisional Justice Committee for Yangon Division sentenced him to 7 years hard labour and imprisonment according to Crime Against State and High Treasons Act 124. Tin Oo's subsequent appeal for this judgement on 20 August 1977 was summarily dismissed by Judge Soe Hlaing, of Council of People Justice, the equivalent of the Supreme Court, and upheld the judgement handed out by Yangon Division Justice Committee. Colonel Hla Pe, commander of Northern Regional Command, Colonel Maung Maung, Colonel General Staff and Colonel Myo Aung, commandant of the National Defence College were also dismissed and the former two were imprisoned along with General Tin Oo




